# K-Means Project

## Code

Kmeans_AOsborne.py - The goal was to implement a K-means clustering algorithm and apply it to compress an image in Python.

## Images

Palm.png - Original image in PNG format. 16,110 KB

compressed_image_4.png - Compressed image using 4 clusters in PNG format. 893 KB

compressed_image_8.png - Compressed Image using 8 clusters in PNG format. 1,776 KB.

Capture of compressed image with 4 clusters.png - Screen capture of image generated by the program as it was run for 4 clusters.

Capture of compressed image with 8 clusters.png - Screen capture of image generated by the program as it was run for 8 clusters.

## Prereqisites: 
Original PNG image, hopefully, with bright colors to see the eventual decrease in image quality and reduction in size. 

Python 3 installed, pip, and the ability to download pip packages.

## The scope of the project. 
I used the JPG image with bright green palm leaves and yellow leaves on the deck. Later, to compare the sizes of rendered image with 8 and 4 clusters that were automatically produced by the K-means algotrithm, I saved the JPG image as PNG. The size increased almost 8 times, as PNG is a vectorized form. 

I downloaded several helpful packages: 

pathlib

skimage

sklearn.cluster

termcolor

numpy

I checked the dimensions of the original image, and flattened (reshaped) the image for futher processing. 

I used k-means clustering algorithm, originally with 64 clusters - it took too long for my laptop. Then I drastically reduced the number of clusters, to 4, to make sure that code actually worked. It did, but the image looked sad. The 8 was the highest number of clusters I could reasonably use. 

Then, I replaced each pixel value with its nearby centroid and reshaped the image to original dimensions to be able to render it.